(DOCSP-25116): New App Services Getting Started Page and TOC Revamp (#148)
mongodb/docs-app-services: source/getting-started.txt

.. _app-services-get-started:

================
Getting Started
================

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:
   
   Tutorials </tutorials>

The resources on this page are designed to help you explore Atlas App 
Services. To explore a working codebase that showcases App Services' 
features, check out a Template App. For a more guided experience in
learning how to develop with App Services and Realm, start with a 
Tutorial.

Template Apps
-------------

Bootstrap App Services with a Template App. Template apps bring together
many of the building blocks available in Atlas App Services and start you 
off with a prebuilt app that you can customize. The following template
apps are available:

- A mobile todo app written with Realm SDKs that syncs to an App Services App
- A hosted todo web app using the GraphQL API or Realm Web SDK
- An Event-driven :doc:`Database Trigger </triggers/database-triggers>` 
  template that updates a view in a separate collection.

Template apps are available for the following languages:

- C# (Xamarin)
- Dart (Flutter)
- JavaScript (React Native)
- Kotlin (Android)

> - Swift (iOS + SwiftUI)

Reviewer: rather than listing them all here, give a couple of examples (say 3), and then link out to the template app page that's now in the reference section.

.. _app-services-get-started:

================
Getting Started
================

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:
   

>    Tutorials </tutorials>
>    Template Apps </template-apps>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Template Apps </template-apps>
   Tutorials </tutorials>
```

reverse order for consistency w contents on the page

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. _app-services-get-started-overview:

The resources on this page are designed to help you explore Atlas App 
Services. To explore a working codebase that showcases App Services' 
features, check out a Template App. For a more guided experience in
learning how to develop with App Services and Realm, start with a 
Tutorial.

.. _app-services-get-started-template-apps:

Template Apps
-------------

> Bootstrap App Services with a :doc:`Template App </template-apps>`. Template apps bring together

Reviewer: please replace the `:doc:` directive with a `:ref:`

Author: Getting a snooty error when I try to change to a :ref:, would.a :doc: be fine as is?

many of the building blocks available in Atlas App Services and start you 
off with a prebuilt app that you can customize. The following template
apps are available:

> - A mobile todo app written with Realm SDKs that syncs to an App Services App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Todo list mobile apps written with Realm SDKs that syncs to App Services
```

- A hosted todo web app using the GraphQL API or Realm Web SDK
- An Event-driven :doc:`Database Trigger </triggers/database-triggers>` 
  template that updates a view in a separate collection.

> Template apps are available for the following languages:
> 
> - JavaScript (React Native)
> - Kotlin (Android)
> - Swift (iOS + SwiftUI)
> - ...and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Template apps are available for the following languages and frameworks:

- React Native cross-platform (JavaScript)
- Android (Kotlin)
- iOS + SwiftUI (Swift)
- Xamarin (C# .NET)
- Flutter multi-platform (Dart)
- ...and more!
```

> Template apps are available for the following languages:
> 
> - JavaScript (React Native)
> - Kotlin (Android)
> - Swift (iOS + SwiftUI)
> - ...and more!
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

i think we can delete this b/c it's not complete list and this info is covered elsewhere

Checkout the template apps or visit the Tutorials section for a walkthrough
of a template app.

.. button:: Check out the Template Apps
   :uri: https://www.mongodb.com/realm/register?tck=docs_CTA_realm_template_apps

.. _app-services-get-started-tutorials:

Tutorials
---------

> Unlike Template Apps, which provide a pre-built app to explore by 
> yourself, Tutorials provide a detailed step-by-step guide to developing 
> apps that use App Services features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tutorials provide a detailed step-by-step guide to developing 
apps that use App Services features.
```

Reviewer: i don't think we need to start by defining tutorials by what they're not (template apps). tutorial is a widely known concept. can just lead w short description

.. card-group::
   :style: extra-compact
   :columns: 2

   .. card::
      :headline:  iOS with SwiftUI Template App Tutorial
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/swiftui/ 
      :icon: /images/icons/swift_sdk.svg
      :icon-alt: Swift SDK
      
      Learn how to develop an iOS app that seamlessly syncs data using the
      Realm Swift SDK and Device Sync. 

   .. card::
      :headline:  Android with Kotlin Template App Tutorial
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/kotlin/ 
      :icon: /images/icons/kotlin_sdk.svg
      :icon-alt: Kotlin SDK
      

>       Learn how to develop a Android app that seamlessly syncs data using 
>       the Realm Kotlin SDK and Device Sync. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Learn how to develop a Android app that syncs data using 
      the Realm Kotlin SDK and Device Sync. 
```

nit: i'd remove word seamlessly here, and in the following device sync tutorial descriptions. doesn't really add anything

   .. card::
      :headline:  Xamarin with C# Template App Tutorial
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/dotnet/ 
      :icon: /images/icons/dot_net_sdk.svg
      :icon-alt: Dot Net SDK
      

>       Learn how to develop an iOS and Android compatible app that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Learn how to develop an iOS and Android cross-platform app that 
```

Reviewer: is it only iOS and Android or supports other platforms as well?

>       seamlessly syncs data using the Realm Xamarin SDK and Device Sync. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      seamlessly syncs data using the Realm .NET SDK and Device Sync. 
```

   .. card::
      :headline:  React Native with JavaScript Template App Tutorial
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/react-native/ 
      :icon: /images/icons/react_native_sdk.svg
      :icon-alt: React Native SDK
      

>       Learn how to develop an iOS and Android compatible app that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Learn how to develop an iOS and Android cross-platform app that 
```

      seamlessly syncs data using the Realm React Native SDK and Device
      Sync. 

   .. card::
      :headline:  Flutter with Dart Template App Tutorial
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/flutter/ 
      :icon: /images/icons/flutter.svg
      :icon-alt: Flutter SDK
      

>       Learn how to develop an iOS and Android compatible app that 
>       seamlessly syncs data using the Realm Flutter SDK and Device Sync. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Learn how to develop an Flutter multi-platform app that 
      seamlessly syncs data using the Realm Flutter SDK and Device Sync. 
```

Reviewer: also builds on Mac, Linux, Windows

   .. card::
      :headline: Using JWT for Client Authentication
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/tutorial/jwt/

>       :icon: /images/icons/realm/user-authorization.svg

Reviewer: replace this with an icon using the new branding. 

this one could work - https://mongodb.getbynder.com/web/1f0f4de208cca69e/icons/?mediaId=A73C1A45-580E-4FB7-BA156F2F5E05C8CB

      :icon-alt: Authentication Icon
      

>       Authenticate clients using JWT Authentication in an
>       Atlas App Services App. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Authenticate users using JWT Authentication in an
      Atlas App Services App. 
```

"clients" seems like the wrong word here

   .. card::
      :headline: Github Issue Tracker
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/tutorial/backend/
      :icon: /images/icons/realm/data-access-control.svg
      :icon-alt: Tracker Dashboard Icon

      Build a serverless app to track GitHub activity.

>    
>       
>       
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

only 1 new line at end of file

.. _app-services-get-started:

================
Getting Started
================

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:
   
   Template Apps </template-apps>
   Tutorials </tutorials>

The resources on this page are designed to help you explore Atlas App 

> Services. Visit the Template Apps page to bootstrap an App Services app. 

Reviewer 2: I think we could provide more guidance here about what you get with each path. Maybe something like:

> To explore working codebases and apps that showcase App Services features, dive into a Template App. For a more guided experience in learning how to develop with App Services and Realm, check out a Tutorial.

Check out tutorials to learn more about features, such as Device Sync 
and client authentication.

Template Apps
-------------

Bootstrap App Services with a Template App. Template apps bring together
many of the building blocks available in Atlas App Services and start you 

> off with a prebuilt app that you can customize. `Learn more about the Template

Reviewer 2: It might be cool to give readers an idea of the types of App Services apps they can bootstrap here. Maybe move the "Learn more about the Template Apps" line down below a bullet list showing something like:

> Template Apps provide pre-built solutions that implement:
> - A mobile todo app written with Realm SDKs that syncs to an App Services App
> - A hosted todo web app using the GraphQL API or Realm Web SDK
> - An Event-driven [Database Trigger](https://docs-atlas-staging.mongodb.com/atlas-app-services/docsworker-xlarge/DOCSP-24302/triggers/database-triggers/#std-label-database-trigger) template that updates a view in a separate collection.
>
> Learn more about the Template Apps...

Apps here. <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/template-apps/>`_

Tutorials
---------

> Follow along with a tutorial to learn how to use App Services.

Reviewer 2: It might be good to emphasize that tutorials provide a more guided development path. Maybe something like:

> Unlike Template Apps, which give you a pre-built app to explore and leave you to it, Tutorials provide a detailed step-by-step guide to developing apps that use App Services features.

.. card-group::
   :style: extra-compact
   :columns: 3

   .. card::
      :headline: Build on a Template App with Device Sync
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/
      :icon: /images/icons/realm/mobile-sync.svg
      :icon-alt: Sync Icon
      

>       Learn how to use Atlas Device Sync with the Realm client SDKs. 

Reviewer 2: I think this description isn't quite accurate, as the tutorials don't teach you how to "use Atlas Device Sync", but they show how to modify the template app to sort of "build your own" - and along the way, you learn important sync concepts. I think we can tweak it a bit to emphasize that aspect, but I'm definitely open to other wording.
```suggestion
      Learn how to develop apps with Realm client SDKs that sync data seamlessly using Device Sync.
```
